# My Unemployed Warlock: A WoW Data Engineering Pipeline

### World of Warcraft Data Pipeline

A super fun end-to-end data project, working on my favorite game where I tried to create a full engineering/analytics workflow - from creating an Addon/Mod to track data, to processing,cleaning and transforming the data and finally, a Tableau visualization to display it. Using real data from my very own WoW Character Dagwood.

### Project Overview

This project demonstrates a full end-to-end data engineering and analytics pipeline built around custom gameplay data from World of Warcraft. It includes addon/mod development, data transformation, database design, ETL processes, and visualization.

Workflow: ETL pipeline (Lua → Python → SQL → Python → Tableau)

### Process:

#### Step 1 - In-Game Data Collection (WoW Addon/Mod)
_This was my first time creating a addon/mod for world of warcraft (for any game really). I wanted to track certain data in order to create a 'journey' you could follow for my character._

- Designed and built a custom World of Warcraft Addon in Lua.
- The goal was to track in game telemetry such as:
  - Monster kills
  - Zone transitions & times spent in them
  - Gold earned/spent
  - Levels gained
  - Quests completed, spells casted, etc

- The data was saved in a session based format using the WoW Saved Variables system.

#### Step 2 - Python Data Translation & Processing
_I tried to automate this process by creating a python script._

- I Developed a Python script to:
  - Read the Saved Variables file generated by the addon/mod.
  - Clean and restructure the Lua-based data format (Into a Pandas DataFrame).
  - Export the cleaned data to Excel for backup.
  - Insert the data into a SQL staging tables for further processing.

#### Step 3 - SQL Database & ETL Architecture
_For this step I only wanted to create a simple database to store the data, focusing on the process of moving the data from a staging table to the actual tables used for analysis._

- Designed and built a relational SQL database to store my gameplay data.
- Created staging and production tables:
  - Staging tables used for initial ingestion.
- Production tables optimized for analytics and reporting.

#### Step 4 - Data Transformation & Automation
_This step was for transforming the data from the tables into analytic ready datasets, data I could use for my visualization._

- Wrote multiple SQL queries to convert raw gameplay logs into analytics-ready datasets.
- Built Stored Procedures to:
  - Automate the transformation pipeline.
  - Move data from staging → production tables.
    - This was to make the process of moving data into multiple tables easier. Execute one query instead of 5.
- Added simple logic to handle errors.

#### Step 5 - Exporting Analytics Data to CSV (Python)
_This was an extra step I had to make because I coulnd't find a simple (and free) way to directly get the data from my Database into Tableau._

- Created a second Python script that:
  - Connects to the SQL database.
  - Extracts cleaned and transformed tables.
  - Outputs them to structured CSV files for use in Tableau.
- Included automated "folder structure".

#### Final Step  -  Tableau Visualization
_I wanted to display my character data in some way, and I went for more of a storytelling focus since I knew the data would most definitely not be very exciting to anyone besides myself._

- Built an interactive Tableau dashboard that displays:
  - Gameplay trends over time (sessions AKA "Adventure Days").
  - Overview of total gameplay data, such as:
    - Dungeons conquered, monsters killed, character level, spells casted, flowers picked etc

- Connected Tableau to exported CSVs and refreshed data automatically through the pipeline.

[View Tableau Dashboard]()

### Outcome
- Addon/Mod scripting in Lua.
- Learning more about Data engineering & automation.
- Small ETL pipeline with staging/production environments.
- SQL database design + readable queries and Store Procedures.
- Data cleaning & transformation.
- Interactive Tableau visualization for storytelling.
- End-to-end project ownership.

### Tools:
| Category      | Tools                                                           |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Programming   | Python, Pandas, Lua                                             |
| Data Source   | My own generated in-game data                                   |
| Database      | SQL Server (T-SQL)                                              |
| Visualization | Tableau                                                         |
| Other         | SQLAlchemy/pyodbc, GitHub, world of warcraft addon API          |
